https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-17599 -- Add Building images sections (#7484)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: edge_manager/edge_mgr_build_images.adoc

[#edge-mgr-build]
= Building a _bootc_ operating system image for use with the {rhem}

To prepare your device to be managed by the {rhem}, build a `bootc` operating system image that contains the {rhem} agent.
Then build an operating system disk image for flashing to physical devices or virtual machines.

For more information, read the following sections:

* <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>
* <<request-cert,Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding>>
* <<image-pullsecrets,Optional: Using image pull secrets>>
* <<build-bootc-image,Building the operating system image with _bootc_>>
* <<build-sign-image,SSigning and publishing the _bootc_ operating system image by using Sigstore>>
* <<build-disk-image,Building the operating system disk image>>
* <<sign-disk-image,Signing and publishing the operating system disk image to an OCI registry>>

[#build-prerequisites]
== Prerequisites

> * Install `podman` version 5.0 or later. See link:https://podman.io/docs/installation[Podman Installation Instructions].

Reviewer: In the [RHEL docs](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/composing_installing_and_managing_rhel_for_edge_images/index#building-a-rhel-for-edge-container-commit-for-non-network-based-deployments_assembly_deploying-a-non-network-rhel-for-edge-image), they point to a [knowledgebase solution](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3650231) instead. That KB, in turn, redirects to the RHEL8 / RHEL9 "[Getting container tools](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/building_running_and_managing_containers/index#proc_getting-container-tools_assembly_starting-with-containers)" sections. That section says to "install the `container-tools` meta package that contains both Podman and Skopeo.

My suggestion would be to either use a formulation like in the first RHEL doc I linked (which doesn't mention Skopeo as this'll be installed at the same time) or to merge the two bullets ("Install Podman version 5.0 or later and Skopeo version 1.14 or later. See [...]" and then link to the "Getting container tools" section.

* Install `bootc-image-builder`. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/using_image_mode_for_rhel_to_build_deploy_and_manage_operating_systems/index#installing-bootc-image-builder_creating-bootc-compatible-base-disk-images-with-bootc-image-builder[Installing bootc-image-builder].
* Install `skopeo` version 1.14 or later.

[#install-rhem-cli]
=== Installing the {rhem} CLI

To install the {rhem} CLI, complete the following steps:

. Enable the subscription manager for the repository appropriate for your system by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
subscription-manager repos --enable rhacm-2.13-for-rhel-<version>-<arch>-rpms
----

+
For a full list of available repositories for the {rhem}, see the _Additional resources_ section.

. Install the `flightctl` CLI with your package manager. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> sudo dnf install flightctl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo dnf install flightctl-cli
```

----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, complete the following steps:

. Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> flightctl login --username=<your_user> --password=<your_password> https://<rhem_api_server_url> --insecure-skip-tls-verify

Reviewer: Did you want to add a note regarding `--insecure-skip-tls-verrify` as discussed?

Author: Yes, apologies! Will push an update including the note shortly.

----

> . Obtain the enrollment credentials in the format of an agent configuration file by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Obtain the enrollment credentials in the format of an agent configuration file with embedded credentials by running the following command:
```
Might be useful to explain why the `--output=embedded` option is being used. Alternatively (or additionally) we could add to `<1>` "The `--output=embedded` option specifies that output shall be an agent configuration file with the enrollment credentials embedded.`

enrollment-service:
  authentication:
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBF...
  service:
    certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    server: https://agent-api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:7443
  enrollment-ui-endpoint: https://ui.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:8081
----

[#image-pullsecrets]
== Optional: Using image pull secrets

If your device relies on containers from a private repository, you must configure a pull secret for the registry.

. Depending on the kind of container image you use, place the pull secret in one or both of the following system paths on the device:

* Operating system images use the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
* Application container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.

*Important:* The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

. Ensure that the pull secrets have the following format:

+
[source,json]
----
{
  "auths": {
    "registry.example.com": {
      "auth": "base64-encoded-credentials"
    }
  }
}
----

For more information, see the _Additional resources_ section.

[#build-bootc-image]
== Building the operating system image with _bootc_

> Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent and the agent configuration.
> Optionally, you can include any drivers, host configuration, and application workloads that you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent.
Optionally, you can include the agent configuration (early binding).
Optionally, you can include any drivers, host configuration, and application workloads that you need.
```

Complete the following steps:

. Create a `Containerfile` file with the following content to build a RHEL 9-based operating system image that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> <1>

> RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUN subscription-manager repos --enable rhacm-2.13-for-rhel-9-$(uname -m)-rpms && \
```

    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer <2>
----
<1> The base image that is referenced in `FROM` is a bootable container (`bootc`) image that already contains a Linux kernel, which allows you to reuse existing standard container build tools and workflows.
<2> Disables the default automatic updates. The updates are managed by the {rhem}.

+
*Important:* If your device relies on containers from a private repository, the device pull secret must be placed in the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

.. *Optional:* To enable `podman-compose` application support, add the following section to the `Containerfile` file:

+
[source,bash]
----

> RUN subscription-manager repos --enable codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-$(uname -m)-rpms && \

Reviewer 2: @fzdarsky Today the line:

`subscription-manager repos --enable codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-x86_64-rpms` 

is giving me Error 78 when I build the image. 

Removing this line the image is built without error. Can we use just:

```
     dnf install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm && \

     dnf -y install podman-compose && \

     dnf -y clean all && \

    systemctl enable podman.service
```

Not sure why yesterday I didn't get this error.

Reviewer: Hm... I copied the lines from some KB article, but when I look at the podman-compose package's dependencies, none of them depend on anything from the codeready-builder repo. I'd say, if the image builds without that repo and can run a podman-compose application we should be fine.

Reviewer 2: I think the issue is with the subscription-manager command...I tried to build a Containerfile with just 
`RUN subscription-manager repos` and I am getting the same error

Reviewer: The problem may be with passing in entitlements from the RHEL host then. I'd say if the resulting image works without, let's remove the command.

Author: Removing first line. Docs have the following:
```RUN dnf install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm && \
    dnf -y install podman-compose && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable podman.service```

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman build -t ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} .
----

[#build-sign-image]
== Signing and publishing the _bootc_ operating system image by using Sigstore

To sign the `bootc` operating system image by using Sigstore, complete the following steps:

. Generate a Sigstore key pair named `signingkey.pub` and `signingkey.private`:

+
[source,bash]
----
skopeo generate-sigstore-key --output-prefix signingkey
----

. Configure container tools such as Podman and Skopeo to upload Sigstore signatures together with your signed image to your OCI registry:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo tee "/etc/containers/registries.d/${OCI_REGISTRY}.yaml" > /dev/null <<EOF
docker:
    ${OCI_REGISTRY}:
        use-sigstore-attachments: true
EOF
----

. Log in to your OCI registry by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman login ${OCI_REGISTRY}
----

+
*Note:* The CLI uses the certificate authority (CA) pool of the host to verify the {rhem} service's identity.
The verification can lead to a TLS verification error while using self-signed certificates, if you do not add your CA certificate to that pool.

> You can bypass the server verification by adding the `--insecure-skip-tls-verify` flag to your command.

Reviewer: This belongs to the `flightctl login` command above.

. Sign and publish the operating system image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> sudo podman push --sign-by-sigstore-private-key ./signingkey.private ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo podman push \
    --sign-by-sigstore-private-key ./signingkey.private \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
```

Reviewer: (Just because a one-liner may be too long?)

----

[#build-disk-image]
== Building the operating system disk image

Build the operating system disk image that contains the file system for your devices.
Complete the following steps:

. Create a directory called `output` by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p output
----

. Use `bootc-image-builder` to generate an operating system disk image of type `iso` from your operating system image. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman run --rm -it --privileged --pull=newer \
    --security-opt label=type:unconfined_t \
    -v "${PWD}/output":/output \
    -v /var/lib/containers/storage:/var/lib/containers/storage \
    registry.redhat.io/rhel9/bootc-image-builder:latest \
    --type iso \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

When the `bootc-image-builder` completes, you can find the ISO disk image at the `${PWD}/output/bootiso/install.iso` path.

[#sign-disk-image]
== Optional: Signing and publishing the operating system disk image to an OCI registry

Sign and publish your disk image to your OCI registry.

> Optionally, you can compress and publish the disk image as OCI artifacts that facilitates a unified hosting and distribution of the disk image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can compress and publish the disk image as an OCI artifact to the same OCI registry as your bootc images. This facilitates a unified hosting and distribution of bootc and disk images.
```

To publish your ISO disk image to a repository named after your `bootc` image with `/diskimage-iso` appended, complete the following steps:

[#sign-disk-image-prereq]
=== Prerequisites

* You created a private key by using Sigstore. See <<build-sign-image,Signing and publishing the _bootc_ operating system image by using Sigstore>>.

[#sign-disk-image-proc]

> === Optional: Signing and publishing the operating system disk image to an OCI registry

Reviewer: Redundant? (same title as before)

> . Sign and publish your compressed disk image to your OCI registry.
> 
> .. Change the owner of the directory where the ISO disk image is located. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sign and publish your disk image to your OCI registry by performing the following steps:

. Change the owner of the directory where the ISO disk image is located from `root` to your current user. Run the following command:
```
(I think, because it's a new procedure.) Also, in this case we're not compressing the image.

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo chown -R $(whoami):$(whoami) "${PWD}/output"
----

> .. Define the `OCI_DISK_IMAGE_REPO` environmental variable with `/diskimage-iso` appended by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Define the `OCI_DISK_IMAGE_REPO` environmental variable to be the same repository as your bootc image with `/diskimage-iso` appended by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_DISK_IMAGE_REPO=${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}/diskimage-iso
----

.. Create a manifest list by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman manifest create \
    ${OCI_DISK_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

> .. Add the ISO disk image to the manifest list as an artifact by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Add the ISO disk image to the manifest list as an OCI artifact by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman manifest add \
    --artifact --artifact-type application/vnd.diskimage.iso \
    --arch=amd64 --os=linux \
    ${OCI_DISK_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} \
    "${PWD}/output/bootiso/install.iso"
----

> .. Sign the image with your private Sigstore key and push the image to the registry. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Sign the manifest list with your private Sigstore key and push the image to the registry. Run the following command:
```

[#edge-mgr-build]

> = Building a _bootc_ operating system image for use with the {rhem}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Building a _bootc_ operating system image for {rhem}
```

Reviewer 3: simplify titles

Reviewer 3: See where headers can be simplified if/when there is time.

To prepare your device to be managed by the {rhem}, build a `bootc` operating system image that contains the {rhem} agent.

> Then build an operating system disk image for your devices.

Reviewer 3: I have had to fix these lines in a lot of the doc, I wonder if it's bc of editor or something. A paragraph should run together and a space between a paragraph helps us see in the source how the topic should build. I will fix it after the merge.

For more information, read the following sections:

* <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>
* <<request-cert,Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding>>
* <<image-pullsecrets,Optional: Using image pull secrets>>
* <<build-bootc-image,Building the operating system image with _bootc_>>
* <<build-sign-image,Signing and publishing the _bootc_ operating system image by using Sigstore>>
* <<build-disk-image,Building the operating system disk image>>
* <<sign-disk-image,Signing and publishing the operating system disk image to an OCI registry>>

> 

Reviewer 3: we need to make sure OCI is approved or at least not "not approved". You do this by looking it up in their official documentation and seeing if it is in naming guidance or manuals. This is the first step to a new abbreviation. Then we need to write it out the first time even if approved.

Reviewer 3: Since they use [Open Container Initiative](https://opencontainers.org/) (OCI) and use OCI, just use the fill title initially.

[#build-prerequisites]

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: we always need an intro in between header and lists

Author: I'm not sure what intro is needed here, could you please clarify? We talked about these particular prereqs that apply to the whole image building process. Also, I've seen this structure in the docs (one prereq to several procedures), just to name a few:
- [GitOps](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.13_stage/gitops/gitops_manage_policy_def.adoc?plain=1#L9-L12)
- [etcd encryption](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.13_stage/governance/etcd_encryption_policy.adoc?plain=1#L12-L15)
- [Install in disconnected envs](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.13_stage/install/install_disconnected.adoc?plain=1#L12-L15)

Reviewer 3: The prereqs are fine. I will add the intro.

Reviewer 3: See the following prerequisites for building a `bootc` operating system image:

[#install-rhem-cli]
== Installing the {rhem} CLI

To install the {rhem} CLI, complete the following steps:

. Enable the subscription manager for the repository appropriate for your system by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
subscription-manager repos --enable rhacm-2.13-for-rhel-<version>-<arch>-rpms
----

+
For a full list of available repositories for the {rhem}, see the _Additional resources_ section.

. Install the `flightctl` CLI with your package manager. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo dnf install flightctl-cli
----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, complete the following steps:

. Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
flightctl login --username=<your_user> --password=<your_password> https://<rhem_api_server_url>
----

+
*Note:* The CLI uses the certificate authority pool of the host to verify the {rhem} service's identity.

> The verification can lead to a TLS verification error when using self-signed certificates, if you do not add your certificate authority certificate to the pool.

Reviewer 3: Please remove possessive and reword line 61

Reviewer 3: If 62 is not part of the note, lets create a space between the two lines. If it is, we can merge the lines.

You can bypass the server verification by adding the `--insecure-skip-tls-verify` flag to your command.

. Obtain the enrollment credentials in the format of an agent configuration file by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
flightctl certificate request --signer=enrollment --expiration=365d --output=embedded > config.yaml
----

+

> where: 

Reviewer 4: I would change this to **Notes:** as it seems a little out of place when used with a screen reader otherwise.

* The `--expiration=365d` option specifies that the credentials are valid for a year.
* The `--output=embedded` option specifies that the output is an agent configuration file with the enrollment credentials embedded.

+
The returned `config.yaml` contains the URLs of the {rhem} service, the certificate authority bundle, and the enrollment client certificate and key for the agent.
See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
enrollment-service:
  authentication:
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBF...
  service:
    certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    server: https://agent-api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:7443
  enrollment-ui-endpoint: https://ui.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:8081
----

[#image-pullsecrets]
== Optional: Using image pull secrets

If your device relies on containers from a private repository, you must configure a pull secret for the registry.

. Depending on the kind of container image you use, place the pull secret in one or both of the following system paths on the device:

> 

Reviewer 3: This formatting will be off if we don't indent the list and the note, see the preview on this section for what I mean.

* Operating system images use the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
* Application container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.

*Important:* The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

. Ensure that the pull secrets have the following format:

+
[source,json]
----
{
  "auths": {
    "registry.example.com": {
      "auth": "base64-encoded-credentials"
    }
  }
}
----

For more information, see the _Additional resources_ section.

[#build-bootc-image]
== Building the operating system image with _bootc_

Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent.
You can optionally include the following items in your operating system image:

> 

Reviewer 3: Caps on this list.

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_REGISTRY=registry.redhat.io
----

. Define the image repository that you have permissions to write to by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_IMAGE_REPO=${OCI_REGISTRY}/<your_org>/<your_image>
----

. Define the image tag by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_IMAGE_TAG=v1
----

. Build the operating system image for your target platform:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman build -t ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} .
----

[#build-sign-image]
== Signing and publishing the _bootc_ operating system image by using Sigstore

To sign the `bootc` operating system image by using Sigstore, complete the following steps:

. Generate a Sigstore key pair named `signingkey.pub` and `signingkey.private`:

+
[source,bash]
----
skopeo generate-sigstore-key --output-prefix signingkey
----

. Configure container tools such as Podman and Skopeo to upload Sigstore signatures together with your signed image to your OCI registry:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo tee "/etc/containers/registries.d/${OCI_REGISTRY}.yaml" > /dev/null <<EOF
docker:
    ${OCI_REGISTRY}:
        use-sigstore-attachments: true

> EOF

Reviewer 3: We take out all EOF in the samples.

Author: In this case, that marks the end of input for the `sudo tee "/etc/containers/registries.d/${OCI_REGISTRY}.yaml" > /dev/null <<EOF` command. If I remove that, the command will never finish until it receives the `EOF` input

=== Installing the {rhem} CLI

Complete the following steps:

. Create a variable by selecting the appropriate {rhem} CLI binary for your operating system and CPU architecture:

+
[source,bash]
----
EM_CLI_BINARY=flightctl-linux-amd64
----

. Download the `flightctl` binary to your machine by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
curl -LO https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/latest/download/${EM_CLI_BINARY}
----

. Verify that the downloaded binary has the correct checksum by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
echo "$(curl -L -s https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/download/latest/${EM_CLI_BINARY}-sha256.txt)  ${EM_CLI_BINARY}" | sha256sum --check
----

. If the checksum is correct, rename the file to `flightctl` and make the executable by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
$ mv "${EM_CLI_BINARY}" flightctl && chmod +x flightctl
----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, then complete the following steps:

. Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI.

+
[source,bash]
----

> flightctl login https://api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io/ --web --insecure-skip-tls-verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flightctl login --username=<your_user> --password=<your_password> https://<url_of_rhem_api_server>
```

----

. Obtain the enrollment credentials in the format of an agent configuration file by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
flightctl certificate request --signer=enrollment --expiration=365d --output=embedded > config.yaml <1>
----

> <1> The credentials are valid for a year.

Reviewer 5: Minor comment - it might not be immediately obvious that it's valid for a year because we specified "--expiration=365d"

[#build-bootc-image]
== Building the operating system image with `bootc`

Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent and the agent configuration.
Optionally, you can include any drivers, host configuration, and application workloads that you need.
Complete the following steps:

. Create a file named `Containerfile` with the following content to build an operating system image based on RHEL 9 that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> <1>

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer <2>

# Optional: to enable podman-compose application support uncomment below”
# RUN dnf -y install epel-release epel-next-release && \
#    dnf -y install podman-compose && \
#    systemctl enable podman.service

> ADD config.yaml /etc/flightctl/

Reviewer 5: I would add a note that config.yaml was optionally created in [#request-cert] - this line is only relevant for early binding.

> [#edge-mgr-build]

Reviewer 3: I will review this one in it's entirety, but it will take a while bc it has many files. I will try to finalize it Friday if you are ready,  but addressing the matrices and some other feature work, as well. Asked Oliver for help if he has time.

Reviewer 4: I will take a look this evening

> = Building an operating system image (bootc) for use with the {rhem}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Building an operating system image _bootc_ for use with the {rhem}
```

Reviewer 3: All of the doc is for rhem, so I don't think we need to say this: 

`for use with the {rhem}`

Building a _bootc_ operating system image with the  {rhem} agent
?

Author: > Building a bootc operating system image with the {rhem} agent

This is very similar to what we started out with :) We're not building the images with the RHEM agent, instead we're using the `bootc` tool. However, these images are built specifically to use with RHEM because it includes the agent and CLI in the container image that is deployed on devices. See the current example:

```FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> #----> RHEL-based image

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \ #----> enable the flightctl CLI
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \ #----> install the agent
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \ #----> enable the agent
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer
```
I don't understand everything that we do here but I think that's all that is relevant. @fzdarsky Please keep me honest here

> Build a `bootc` operating system image that contains the {rhem} agent and build an operating system disk image for flashing to physical devices or virtual machines.

Reviewer 3: I would break this out in to two sentences because I was a bit disoriented reading it with two actions and many reasons for the actions all in one sentence.

For more information, read the following sections:

* <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>
* <<request-cert,Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding>>
* <<image-pullsecrets,Optional: Using image pull secrets>>
* <<build-bootc-image,Building the `bootc` operating system image>>
* <<build-sign-image,Signing and publishing the `bootc` operating system image>>
* <<build-disk-image,Building the operating system disk image>>
* <<sign-disk-image,Signing and publishing the operating system disk image (bootc)>>
* <<specific-platforms,Considerations for specific target platforms>>

[#build-prerequisites]
== Prerequisites

* Install the latest `flightctl` CLI. See <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>.

> * Install `podman` version 5.0 or higher. See (https://podman.io/docs/installation[Podman Installation Instructions]).

Reviewer 3: 5.0 or later

> * Install `skopeo` version 1.14 or higher.

Reviewer 3: or later

//Can't link to the GH repo for skopeo here. 

[#install-rhem-cli]
=== Installing the {rhem} CLI

Complete the following steps:

> . Create a variable by selecting the appropriate {rhem} CLI binary for your operating system and CPU architecture:

Reviewer 3: run the command?

+
[source,bash]
----
EM_CLI_BINARY=flightctl-linux-amd64
----

. Download the `flightctl` binary to your machine by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
curl -LO https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/latest/download/${EM_CLI_BINARY}
----

> . Verify that the downloaded binary has the correct checksum by running the following command:file:///home/amolnar/openshift-docs/edge_computing/modules/cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler-with-manual-performance-settings.adoc

Reviewer 3: we have a name in this command or directory or something, not sure --line 46, and should `checksum` be coded?

+
[source,bash]
----
echo "$(curl -L -s https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/download/latest/${EM_CLI_BINARY}-sha256.txt)  ${EM_CLI_BINARY}" | sha256sum --check
----

> . If the checksum is correct, rename the file to `flightctl` and make the executable by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: need to code _checksum_? (this will not necessarily be translatable--coding it tells machines and translators that it is not an official English word.

+
[source,bash]
----
$ mv "${EM_CLI_BINARY}" flightctl && chmod +x flightctl
----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, then complete the following steps:

> . Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI.

Reviewer 3: Run the command?

  enrollment-ui-endpoint: https://ui.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:8081
----

[#image-pullsecrets]
== Optional: Using image pull secrets

If your device relies on containers from a private repository, you must configure a pull secret for the registry.

. Depending on the kind of container image you use, place the pull secret in one or both of the following system paths on the device:

* Operating system images use the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
* Application container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.

*Important:* The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

. Ensure that the pull secrets have the following format:

+
[source,json]
----
{
  "auths": {
    "registry.example.com": {
      "auth": "base64-encoded-credentials"
    }
  }
}
----

For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/using_image_mode_for_rhel_to_build_deploy_and_manage_operating_systems/index#configuring-container-pull-secrets_managing-users-groups-ssh-key-and-secrets-in-image-mode-for-rhel[Configuring container pull secrets].

[#build-bootc-image]

> == Building the operating system image with `bootc`

Reviewer 3: I think we have to italicize here, as well (it's because of the way these built when we got here with the doc)

Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent and the agent configuration.
Optionally, you can include any drivers, host configuration, and application workloads that you need.
Complete the following steps:

> . Create a file named `Containerfile` with the following content to build an operating system image based on RHEL 9 that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

Reviewer 3: type of file?

image _that is_ based on RHEL 9

Author: Suggestion as an alternative:
> Create a `Containerfile` file with the following content to build a RHEL 9-based operating system image that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

If I go with you suggestion, it would look like this:
> Create a `Containerfile` file with the following content to build an operating system image **that is based on RHEL 9 that includes** the {rhem} agent and configuration:

The two similar clauses immediately after each other would be hard to read.

Reviewer 3: The first one works.

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> <1>

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer <2>

# RUN dnf -y install epel-release epel-next-release && \ <3>
#    dnf -y install podman-compose && \
#    systemctl enable podman.service

# ADD config.yaml /etc/flightctl/ <4>
----

> <1> The base image referenced in `FROM` is a bootable container (`bootc`) image that already contains a Linux kernel, which allows you to reuse existing standard container build tools and workflows.

Reviewer 3: that is referenced in the FROM specification?

Why are we putting comments here and telling them to uncomment? (We try not to have comments; we try to pull them out and put them in the doc, this is why I am asking.)

Author: This is how we do it in OCP. Personally, I think it's handy to just uncomment something like this but I pull them out and created two optional substeps. Please check the commit after I pushed

Reviewer 3: Ok, it is a bit odd and not in line with our "no comments in code" standard here, but if it is very common.... we can talk about this one next week as a team.

Author: Let's work within the ACM standards, plus I already pulled them out!

<2> Disables the default automatic updates. The updates are manage by the {rhem}.
<3> Uncomment the section to enable `podman-compose` application support
<4> Optional. Uncomment the line if you created the `config.yaml` for early binding. For more information, see <<request-cert,Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding>>.

*Important:* If your device relies on containers from a private repository, the device pull secret must be placed in the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

. Define the OCI registry by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_REGISTRY=quay.io
----

. Define the image repository that you have permissions to write to by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_IMAGE_REPO=${OCI_REGISTRY}/<your_org>/<your_image>
----

. Define the image tag by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
OCI_IMAGE_TAG=v1
----

. Build the operating system image for your target platform:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman build -t ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} .
----

[#build-sign-image]

> == Signing and publishing the `bootc` operating system image

Reviewer 3: same: _bootc_

Sign the `bootc` operating system image by using Sigstore.
Complete the following steps:

. Generate a Sigstore key pair named `signingkey.pub` and `signingkey.private`:

+
[source,bash]
----
skopeo generate-sigstore-key --output-prefix signingkey
----

> . Configure container tools like Podman and Skopeo to upload Sigstore signatures together with your signed image to your OCI registry:

Reviewer 3: _such as_ replaces _like_

Reviewer 3: Standard from the manual:

**Do not use to mean such as.**

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo tee "/etc/containers/registries.d/${OCI_REGISTRY}.yaml" > /dev/null <<EOF
docker:
    ${OCI_REGISTRY}:
        use-sigstore-attachments: true
EOF
----

. Log in to your OCI registry:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman login ${OCI_REGISTRY}
----

> . Sign and publish the operating system image:

Reviewer 3: run the following command?

[#sign-disk-image]
== Signing and publishing the operating system disk image

Sign and publish your disk image to your OCI registry.
Optionally, you can compress the disk image that facilitates a unified hosting and distribution of the disk image.
You can also use manifest lists to keep matching `bootc` and disk images together.

Complete the following steps:

. Sign and publish your compressed disk image to your OCI registry by using manifest lists:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman manifest create \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

sudo podman manifest add \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} \
    docker://${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

gzip $(pwd)/output/image/disk.raw

sudo podman manifest add \
    --artifact --artifact-type application/vnd.diskimage.raw+gzip \
    --arch=amd64 --os=linux \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} \
    $(pwd)/output/image/disk.raw.gz

sudo podman manifest push --all \
     --sign-by-sigstore-private-key ./signingkey.private \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} \
    docker://${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

> ----

Reviewer 3: These are normally built out in to separate steps. We try not to combine steps in one command.

Author: I asked about what each command does but I think my comment got buried. I'll ask again

Reviewer 3: I saw that, there are a few places where we need to break out those commands in the rhem doc. @avishayt @fzdarsky FYI.

[#specific-platforms]
== Considerations for specific target platforms

When using the {rhem}, the following target platform require specific considerations:

* VMware vSphere
* Red Hat OpenShift Container Native Virtualization
* Red Hat Satellite

[#vmware]
=== Image building for VMware vSphere with {rhem}

When building operating system images and disk images for VMware vSphere, you can follow the generic image building process with the following changes:

* Using late binding of the enrollment endpoint and enrollment certificates.
* Injecting the enrollment certificate or the agent configuration through `cloud-init` when provisioning the virtual device.
* Optional: Adding the `open-vm-tools` guest tools to the image.
* Building a disk image of type `vmdk` instead of `raw`.

> Complete the generic steps with changes to the following steps:

Reviewer 3: This should be titled and built as a task since it has a procedure.

.. Create a file named `Containerfile` with the following content:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM quay.io/centos-bootc/centos-bootc:stream9

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl centos-stream-9-x86_64 && \
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent; \
    dnf -y clean all; \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service

RUN dnf -y install cloud-init open-vm-tools; \
    dnf -y clean all; \
    ln -s ../cloud-init.target /usr/lib/systemd/system/default.target.wants && \
    systemctl enable vmtoolsd.service
----

. Create a directory called `output` by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p output
----

. Generate an operating system disk image of type `vmdk` from your operating system image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman run --rm -it --privileged --pull=newer \
    --security-opt label=type:unconfined_t \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
    -v /var/lib/containers/storage:/var/lib/containers/storage \
    quay.io/centos-bootc/bootc-image-builder:latest \
    --type vmdk \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

> When `bootc-image-builder` completes, you can find the disk image under `$(pwd)/output/vmdk/disk.vmdk`.

Reviewer 3: Looking good. Generally we should separate multiple-step commands and build them as part of the procedure. There are a few other comments.

[#edge-mgr-build]

> = Building bootc image and disk image with the {rhem}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Building an operating system image (bootc) for use with the {rhem}
```

Author: This title is a bit long but I understand why this change is necessary. I'll see if I can come up with a shorter version.

. Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI.

+
[source,bash]
----
flightctl login https://api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io/ --web --insecure-skip-tls-verify
----

. Obtain the enrollment credentials in the format of an agent configuration file by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
flightctl certificate request --signer=enrollment --expiration=365d --output=embedded > config.yaml <1>
----
<1> The credentials are valid for a year.

+
The returned `config.yaml` contains the URLs of the {rhem} service, the certificate authority bundle, and the enrollment client certificate and key for the agent.
See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
enrollment-service:
  authentication:
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBF...
  service:
    certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    server: https://agent-api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:7443
  enrollment-ui-endpoint: https://ui.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:8081
----

[#image-pullsecrets]
== Optional: Using image pull secrets

If your device relies on containers from a private repository, you must configure a pull secret for the registry.

> . Place the pull secret in one of the following system paths on the device:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Place the pull secret in one or both of the following system paths on the device, depending on the kind of container image:
```

* Operating system images use the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.

> * Container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Application container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.
```

*Important:* The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

> . Ensure that the pull secret have the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure that the pull secrets have the following format:
```

+
[source,json]
----
{
  "auths": {
    "registry.example.com": {
      "auth": "base64-encoded-credentials"
    }
  }
}
----

For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/using_image_mode_for_rhel_to_build_deploy_and_manage_operating_systems/index#configuring-container-pull-secrets_managing-users-groups-ssh-key-and-secrets-in-image-mode-for-rhel[Configuring container pull secrets].

[#build-bootc-image]
== Building the operating system image with `bootc`

Build the operating system image with `bootc` that contains the {rhem} agent and the agent configuration.
Optionally, you can include any drivers, host configuration, and application workloads that you need.
Complete the following steps:

. Create a file named `Containerfile` with the following content to build an operating system image based on RHEL 9 that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> <1>

> RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl rhel-9-x86_64 && \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \
```

    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
    dnf -y clean all && \

>     systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer <2>
```

# Optional: to enable podman-compose application support uncomment below”
# RUN dnf -y install epel-release epel-next-release && \
#    dnf -y install podman-compose && \
#    systemctl enable podman.service

ADD config.yaml /etc/flightctl/
----

> <1> The base image referenced in `FROM` is a bootable container (`bootc`) image that already contains a Linux kernel, which allows you to reuse existing standard container build tools and workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The base image referenced in `FROM` is a bootable container (`bootc`) image that already contains a Linux kernel, which allows you to reuse existing standard container build tools and workflows.
<2> Disables the default automatic updates, as updates will be managed by the {rhem}.
```

*Important:* If your device relies on containers from a private repository, the device pull secret must be placed in the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

> . Disable the default automatic updates by adding the following command to the `Containerfile`:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version>
> 
> RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl rhel-9-x86_64 && \
>     dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
>     dnf -y clean all && \
>     systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
>     systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No longer necessary if we add disabling of automatic updates above (which we always have to do on RHEL).

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman login ${OCI_REGISTRY}
----

. Sign and publish the operating system image:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman push --sign-by-sigstore-private-key ./signingkey.private ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

[#build-disk-image]
== Building the operating system disk image

Build the operating system disk image that contains the file system for your devices.
Complete the following steps:

. Create a directory called `output` by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p output
----

. Use `bootc-image-builder` to generate an operating system disk image of type `raw` from your operating system image:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman run --rm -it --privileged --pull=newer \
    --security-opt label=type:unconfined_t \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
    -v /var/lib/containers/storage:/var/lib/containers/storage \
    quay.io/centos-bootc/bootc-image-builder:latest \
    --type raw \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

When the `bootc-image-builder` completes, you can find the disk image under `$(pwd)/output/image/disk.raw`.

[#sign-disk-image]
== Signing and publishing the operating system disk image

> Sign and publish your disk image to your OCI registry.

Reviewer: Strictly speaking, this step is optional and I'm wondering how we can clarify that more.

Ultimately, the `disk.raw` produced by the procedure in the preceding section is needed by the provisioning procedure later. In between, the "builder" persona needs to distribute a copy of that image to the "provisioner" persona.

What we're describing in this section is a method that has many advantages in terms of distribution (same OCI registry, same/simlar tooling and procedures for signing, pushing, pulling), but also has its complexities, especially with the version of Podman/Skopeo that ships with RHEL.

Author: I think I misunderstood what is optional. I thought that compressing the disk image was optional. Instead signing and publishing the operating disk image to an OCI registry is an optional procedure?

If so, we can add an "Optional: " tag to the title. However, I think we should clarify when you'd want to opt for doing it.

Reviewer 5: Ultimately the built and signed image needs to get to the device.  We describe below how to create a disk image file (e.g., raw, vmdk, qcow) to boot the device with.  Stricltly speaking, the image doesn't need to be pushed to a repository to do this.  Pushing to a repository is necessary for cases where the device will pull it from the repository and perform a bootc update (for example, when a RHEM agent updates from one version to another).  Hope that's clear.

Optionally, you can compress the disk image that facilitates a unified hosting and distribution of the disk image.
You can also use manifest lists to keep matching `bootc` and disk images together.

Complete the following steps:

. Sign and publish your compressed disk image to your OCI registry by using manifest lists:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman manifest create \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

sudo podman manifest add \
    ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}-unified:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG} \
    docker://${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}

gzip $(pwd)/output/image/disk.raw

sudo podman manifest add \

>     --artifact --artifact-type application/vnd.diskimage.raw.gzip \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --artifact --artifact-type application/vnd.diskimage.raw+gzip \
```

Reviewer: (need to fix in upstream docs)

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo tee "/etc/containers/registries.d/${OCI_REGISTRY}.yaml" > /dev/null <<EOF
docker:
    ${OCI_REGISTRY}:
        use-sigstore-attachments: true
EOF
----

. Log in to your OCI registry by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman login ${OCI_REGISTRY}
----

. Sign and publish the operating system image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman push --sign-by-sigstore-private-key ./signingkey.private ${OCI_IMAGE_REPO}:${OCI_IMAGE_TAG}
----

[#build-disk-image]
== Building the operating system disk image

Build the operating system disk image that contains the file system for your devices.
Complete the following steps:

. Create a directory called `output` by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p output
----

. Use `bootc-image-builder` to generate an operating system disk image of type `raw` from your operating system image:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman run --rm -it --privileged --pull=newer \
    --security-opt label=type:unconfined_t \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
    -v /var/lib/containers/storage:/var/lib/containers/storage \

>     quay.io/centos-bootc/bootc-image-builder:latest \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    registry.redhat.io/rhel9/bootc-image-builder:latest \
```
Replace with downstream image. That requires login, so we might want to make this a prerequisite (or prepend the [procedure from the RHEL docs](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/using_image_mode_for_rhel_to_build_deploy_and_manage_operating_systems/index#installing-bootc-image-builder_creating-bootc-compatible-base-disk-images-with-bootc-image-builder).

Author: @fzdarsky What about [this](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/7484/files/28d6b481e414454c296368455ad750c16933f51b#diff-3e8d1abfba8729c76d1ba4c004f1dabcb6d3b83a34deedb08586862c17cb703fR350) and [this](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/7484/files/28d6b481e414454c296368455ad750c16933f51b#diff-3e8d1abfba8729c76d1ba4c004f1dabcb6d3b83a34deedb08586862c17cb703fR168)?

Complete the generic steps with changes to the following steps:

. Build an operating system image based on Centoperating system Stream 9 that includes the {rhem} agent and VMware guest tools, without agent configuration.
.. Create a file named `Containerfile` with the following content:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM quay.io/centos-bootc/centos-bootc:stream9

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl centos-stream-9-x86_64 && \
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent; \
    dnf -y clean all; \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service

RUN dnf -y install cloud-init open-vm-tools; \
    dnf -y clean all; \
    ln -s ../cloud-init.target /usr/lib/systemd/system/default.target.wants && \
    systemctl enable vmtoolsd.service
----

. Create a directory called `output` by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p output
----

. Generate an operating system disk image of type `vmdk` from your operating system image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo podman run --rm -it --privileged --pull=newer \
    --security-opt label=type:unconfined_t \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
    -v /var/lib/containers/storage:/var/lib/containers/storage \

>     quay.io/centos-bootc/bootc-image-builder:latest \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    registry.redhat.io/rhel9/bootc-image-builder:latest \
```
(see previous comment)

[#edge-mgr-build]
= Building a _bootc_ operating system image for use with the {rhem}

Build a `bootc` operating system image that contains the {rhem} agent.

> Then build an operating system disk image for flashing to physical devices or virtual machines.

Reviewer 4: This needs at least a sentence or two for the intro (the what and why)

For more information, read the following sections:

* <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>
* <<request-cert,Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding>>
* <<image-pullsecrets,Optional: Using image pull secrets>>
* <<build-bootc-image,Building the `bootc` operating system image>>
* <<build-sign-image,Signing and publishing the `bootc` operating system image>>
* <<build-disk-image,Building the operating system disk image>>
* <<sign-disk-image,Signing and publishing the operating system disk image (bootc)>>
* <<specific-platforms,Considerations for specific target platforms>>

[#build-prerequisites]
== Prerequisites

> * Install the latest `flightctl` CLI. See <<install-rhem-cli,Installing the {rhem} CLI>>.

Reviewer 4: If the topic for this prereq is in this file, then it's probably not a prereq. I think we can remove this.

* Install `podman` version 5.0 or later. See (https://podman.io/docs/installation[Podman Installation Instructions]).
* Install `skopeo` version 1.14 or later.
//Can't link to the GH repo for skopeo here. 

[#install-rhem-cli]
=== Installing the {rhem} CLI

> Complete the following steps:

Reviewer 4: Missing intro sentence. Something like "To install the {rhem} CLI, complete...)" is probably enough.

. Enable the subscription manager for the repository appropriate for your system by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
subscription-manager repos --enable rhacm-2.13-for-rhel-<version>-<arch>-rpms
----

+

> For a full list of available repositories for the {rhem}, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/609/[Download {acm}].

Reviewer 4: I think we can add this to the additional resources section, unless this is something we want the user to click right away,

. Install the `flightctl` CLI with your package manager. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo dnf install flightctl
----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

> If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, then complete the following steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, complete the following steps:
```

See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
enrollment-service:
  authentication:
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBF...
  service:
    certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBD...
    server: https://agent-api.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:7443
  enrollment-ui-endpoint: https://ui.flightctl.127.0.0.1.nip.io:8081
----

[#image-pullsecrets]
== Optional: Using image pull secrets

If your device relies on containers from a private repository, you must configure a pull secret for the registry.

. Depending on the kind of container image you use, place the pull secret in one or both of the following system paths on the device:

* Operating system images use the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
* Application container images use the `/root/.config/containers/auth.json` path.

*Important:* The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

. Ensure that the pull secrets have the following format:

+
[source,json]
----
{
  "auths": {
    "registry.example.com": {
      "auth": "base64-encoded-credentials"
    }
  }
}
----

> For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/using_image_mode_for_rhel_to_build_deploy_and_manage_operating_systems/index#configuring-container-pull-secrets_managing-users-groups-ssh-key-and-secrets-in-image-mode-for-rhel[Configuring container pull secrets].

Reviewer 4: Can probably go into additional resources but I'll leave it up to you.

. Create a variable by selecting the appropriate {rhem} CLI binary for your operating system and CPU architecture. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
EM_CLI_BINARY=flightctl-linux-amd64
----

. Download the `flightctl` binary to your machine by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
curl -LO https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/latest/download/${EM_CLI_BINARY}
----

. Verify that the downloaded binary is correct by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
echo "$(curl -L -s https://github.com/flightctl/flightctl/releases/download/latest/${EM_CLI_BINARY}-sha256.txt)  ${EM_CLI_BINARY}" | sha256sum --check
----

. If the returned value is correct, rename the file to `flightctl` and make the executable by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
$ mv "${EM_CLI_BINARY}" flightctl && chmod +x flightctl
----

[#request-cert]
== Optional: Requesting an enrollment certificate for early binding

If you want to include an agent configuration in the image, then complete the following steps:

. Authenticate with the {rhem} service by using the `flightctl` CLI. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> flightctl login --username=<your_user> --password=<your_password> https://<rhem_api_server_url>

Reviewer 2: I think --insecure-skip-tls-verify  is needed in the login command

Complete the following steps:

. Create a `Containerfile` file with the following content to build a RHEL 9-based operating system image that includes the {rhem} agent and configuration:

+
[source,bash]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/rhel9/rhel-bootc:<required_os_version> <1>

RUN dnf -y copr enable @redhat-et/flightctl && \
    dnf -y install flightctl-agent && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable flightctl-agent.service && \
    systemctl mask bootc-fetch-apply-updates.timer <2>
----
<1> The base image that is referenced in `FROM` is a bootable container (`bootc`) image that already contains a Linux kernel, which allows you to reuse existing standard container build tools and workflows.
<2> Disables the default automatic updates. The updates are managed by the {rhem}.

+
*Important:* If your device relies on containers from a private repository, the device pull secret must be placed in the `/etc/ostree/auth.json` path.
The pull secret must exist on the device before the secret can be consumed.

.. Optional. To enable `podman-compose` application support, add the following section to the `Containerfile` file:

+
[source,bash]
----

> RUN dnf -y install epel-release epel-next-release && \

Reviewer 2: I tried to add these lines to a Containerfile starting from a rhel-bootc:9.5 and centos base images. It works with the centos-bootc but with the rhel-bootc I am getting Error: Unable to find a match: epel-release epel-next-release. 
I can dnf install  -y https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm.  I am not a RHEL expert, but is it possible that here is missing a step? Do we need to enable any repository?

Author: @fzdarsky @avishayt Could you please check?

Reviewer: Looks like on RHEL there isn't an "epel-release" RPM like on CentOS Streams, but one needs to enable codeready-builder repo in subscription manager first and install from the EPEL repo. Can you please try the following:

```
RUN subscription-manager repos --enable codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-$(uname -m)-rpms && \
    dnf install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm && \
    dnf -y install podman-compose && \
    dnf -y clean all && \
    systemctl enable podman.service
```

Reviewer 2: With this I could create the image, thanks for the input.

Author: Thank you for validating, I'll update the docs
